Kimi-Matias Räikkönen (born 17 October 1979 in Espoo) 
Career start at Sauber (2001)
The Sauber team was going to hire Jenson Button, who had been left without a race seat by Williams, as its driver, but Button decided to sign a contract with Renault. Jacky Eeckelaert, the race engineer, contacted Steve Robertson, who was driving for Button, to see if they had another promising driver. Robertson started marketing Räikkönen. Eeckelaert started asking karting circles for comments about Räikkönen and was told that he was, among other things, very determined.

Räikkönen was given the opportunity to prove his worth to the Sauber team when his manager Steve Robertson marketed his protégé to team principal Peter Sauber as a special talent. At the three-day test at Mugello in September 2000, Räikkönen managed to convince the team of his abilities, even though Sauber, the team manager, only observed the test for one day. Räikkönen ran two more tests for Sauber before his contract was announced.[24] Räikkönen's progress was rapid, as he was able to improve his times by three seconds on his second day of testing. Michael Schumacher, who drove in the same tests, told Eeckelaert that Räikkönen's driving style showed that he had the potential to be very fast.

Before the 2001 season, it was uncertain whether Räikkönen would be granted a super-licence, a licence to drive in F1 races, issued by the FIA. This is usually conditional on experience in certain smaller formula classes, but the Renault series in which Räikkönen drives is such a small class that experience was not considered sufficient.

In the end, team principal Sauber considered it a miracle that Räikkönen was granted a licence. The only person to vote against Räikkönen's licence was Flavio Briatore, who voted for both Benetton and Minardi. Max Mosley, the FIA director, abstained. Many doubted Räikkönen's skills at the wheel of an F1 car and, given his limited experience, he was even considered a safety risk on the track.

Räikkönen allayed those doubts from the start by driving safely throughout the season. In his opening race at the Australian GP, he finished seventh, but a 25-second time penalty for the driver ahead of him, Olivier Panis, lifted Räikkönen to sixth place and within one point. Räikkönen scored a total of nine World Championship points during the season, finishing fourth in Austria and Canada and fifth in Britain. He finished tenth in the final points standings. Räikkönen was also named 2001 Newcomer of the Year.

McLaren (2002-2006)
For the following season, Räikkönen was offered a driver's seat by several teams. Supposedly, Räikkönen negotiated with Ferrari, among others, but no deal was reached. At the end of the 2001 season, McLaren, the second most successful F1 team of all time, bought Räikkönen's contract to replace Mika Häkkinen, who had ended his career.

During his time at McLaren, Räikkönen rose to the top of the class, but continued technical problems caused problems. Around 38% of the races Räikkönen drove for McLaren ended in retirement.

2002 season
The 2002 season began with Räikkönen finishing on the podium for the first time after finishing third in the Australian GP and qualifying ahead of team-mate David Coulthard 10 times out of 17 races, but otherwise it was a difficult season for Räikkönen. Räikkönen was forced to retire from no less than 10 of the 17 races he has contested this season. Eight of those were due to technical faults, one to a crash and one to his own driving error. His best finish, second place, came in the French GP. The win was also close, as Räikkönen was leading the race with a few laps to go but suffered an oil leak and a long corner. Michael Schumacher passed him to win the race and secure his fifth world title. For the season as a whole, Räikkönen managed four podium finishes and finished sixth in the World Championship points.

2003 season
McLaren started the 2003 season with a development version of the old car, which was reasonably fast and reliable. Räikkönen finished on the podium in each of the first four stage races of the season and won his first race at the Malaysian GP. The season also saw its fair share of problems, with McLaren never getting its new car ready for racing. The resources wasted on development were eating away at the competitiveness of the old car. Räikkönen was also forced to retire from the European GP he was leading due to an engine failure. Räikkönen fought for the world championship until the end of the season, but was eventually relegated to second place, two points behind Michael Schumacher. Räikkönen was on the podium ten times during the season.

Season 2004
The 2004 season was another difficult one, largely due to the reliability of McLaren-Mercedes. In the first seven races of the season, Räikkönen scored only one World Championship point. Räikkönen took pole position in the British GP, where he finished second. Räikkönen won his second race at the Belgian GP and eventually finished on the podium four times. He finished seventh in the World Championship points. During the season Räikkönen won the prestigious Lorenzo Bandini Award.

2005 season
The 2005 season saw Räikkönen again realistically challenge for the championship. The McLaren car was more reliable than in previous years.

Räikkönen entered the championship race by winning consecutive races in Spain and Monaco. However, the European GP at the Nürburgring ended in the worst possible way for Räikkönen: midway through the race, he made a braking error that damaged a tyre. The unstable tyre led to a front bumper failure and a retirement on the final lap of the race. In the Canadian GP, Räikkönen won, catching Renault's Fernando Alonso, who leads the World Championship points.

Räikkönen did not take part in the US GP because all the teams using Michelin tyres withdrew from the race for safety reasons. However, Räikkönen was keen to drive and even pretended his radio was broken during the warm-up lap. However, after several orders, he too withdrew.

In July and August, Räikkönen won the Hungarian and Turkish GPs. At the Italian GP in Monza, he set an F1 series speed record of 370.1 km/h, a record that was only broken 11 years later in 2016 by Valtteri Bottas. In September, Räikkönen won the Belgian GP.
In the penultimate race of the season in Japan, Räikkönen won from 17th on the grid after overtaking long-time race leader Giancarlo Fisichella on the last lap. Räikkönen retired twice this season. He won seven races this season, but still finished second in the championship points with Alonso taking the title by 21 points.

Räikkönen was voted F1 Driver and Circuit Driver of the Year worldwide[48] as well as Motor Sportsman of the Year in Finland. He was awarded the title of Track Car Driver of the Year by the prestigious British magazine Autosport and the title of Finnish Sportsman of the Year by AKK.

2006 season
The 2006 season got off to a rocky start for Räikkönen, although he scored significantly more points in the first four races than the year before. McLaren's winter testing had been a bumpy ride and reliability problems had not been avoided. McLaren was not one of the championship favourites. Räikkönen's season got off to a miserable start when the rear wing of the Finnish car came off on the first fast lap of qualifying for the opening race in Bahrain. However, the gutsy Finn fought back to take third in the race and second in the third race in Australia. Although the car proved reliable and Räikkönen drove steadily to the points, a lack of pace and a couple of retirements meant that his championship hopes could be buried. However, McLaren's pace improved slightly after the French GP, as evidenced by the pole positions Räikkönen took in Germany, Hungary and Italy. In the end, Räikkönen finished fifth in the World Championship points.

Ferrari (2007-2009)
On 10 September 2006, after the Italian GP at the Monza circuit, a Ferrari spokesman announced that Michael Schumacher would end his F1 career after the current season and that the team's drivers for 2007 would be Kimi Räikkönen and Felipe Massa. Räikkönen drove for the team for three seasons, achieving at least one race win in each season.


Season 2007
When Räikkönen's Ferrari contract was finally announced, 13 international bookmakers considered him the most likely world champion, with average odds of 2.3. However, in winter testing, Räikkönen's new team-mate Felipe Massa was regularly faster than him.

In the first race of the season in Australia, Räikkönen took victory after achieving pole position, the fastest lap and winning for the first time in his career in the same race. However, Ferrari's ambiguous set-up was disallowed after the race, significantly reducing its technical advantage over McLaren.source? After three races, Räikkönen still shared the top spot in the championship with Fernando Alonso and Lewis Hamilton, but an electrical failure at the Spanish GP dropped him to fourth in the championship. Ferrari's publicised troubles with the wind tunnel in the early summer did not help matters either. With the next three races also disappointing, Räikkönen dropped 26 points from Hamilton, who had taken the points lead.

Räikkönen got back into the World Championship fight by winning the French and British GPs.[55][56] In both races, he drove to victory by overtaking the leading car on the fast laps between pit stops. The European GP, which Räikkönen started from pole position, ended in a retirement, but the points gap to championship leader Hamilton did not widen as Hamilton finished ninth outside the points. Räikkönen also won the fourth to last race of the season in Belgium. In Japan, both Ferrari cars had to pit before the start of the race due to tyre problems. Räikkönen finished third and Massa sixth. With two races to go, the gap to Hamilton was still 17 points.
When Hamilton, who was leading the championship, retired from the Chinese GP, which Räikkönen managed to win, the points gap shrank[55][60]. Going into the final race, Fernando Alonso was four points ahead of Hamilton and Räikkönen seven points behind, so three drivers had a chance of winning the world championship. At the start of the final race, Hamilton encountered unexpected gearbox problems that dropped him far off the lead (rumours had it that Hamilton had accidentally switched on the pitstop after leaving the pits). After Alonso, who started the final race in second place in the World Championship points, finished third in the race, Räikkönen took the World Championship by one point ahead of McLaren's Lewis Hamilton and Fernando Alonso. Even after this, the championship had to wait for several more hours to be confirmed after the cars of Nico Rosberg, Robert Kubica and Nick Heidfeld, who finished 4-6th, were suspected of having too cool a fuel supply. The DNFs would have made Hamilton world champion, but the race jury decided to keep the standings and not penalise drivers or teams. Räikkönen's championship was finally confirmed on 16 November 2007 when the FIA rejected McLaren's appeal against the incident. The F1 World Championship was chosen as the most significant sporting achievement of the year by the Finnish Sports Awards.
Season 2008
For the 2008 season, the series introduced a rule change that banned traction control. When testing began, it became clear that Räikkönen was having difficulty getting used to driving without traction control. At his best, he managed to set laps two seconds faster than his 2007 pole position time in the Bahrain test.

The bookmakers put Räikkönen as the world championship favourite before the season, while drivers from other teams put Ferrari as the overwhelming front-runner. Many were also talking about Räikkönen's second consecutive world title. Ex-world champion Alain Prost, on the other hand, put Lewis Hamilton as the championship favourite.
But at the first race of the season in Australia, predictions of Ferrari's supremacy collapsed. It was a very difficult weekend for Räikkönen and his team-mate Massa, who both crashed out a lot. In the end, Räikkönen was forced to retire, but because he had driven more than 90% of the race, he was awarded 1 World Championship point for eighth place. In the Malaysian GP that followed, Räikkönen crossed the finish line first after overtaking his team-mate Massa in a pit stop. In Bahrain, Räikkönen was second[. In Spain, Räikkönen took pole position, fastest lap and race win[64]. In Turkey Räikkönen was third and in Monaco ninth. In Canada, Räikkönen fought for the win, but in the pits Lewis Hamilton chased him and both had to retire.

In France, Räikkönen managed to take pole position, but a damaged exhaust pipe in the race slowed him down enough for Felipe Massa to overtake his team-mate. Räikkönen crossed the finish line in second place and also recorded the fastest lap of the race for the fifth consecutive season. In the British GP, Räikkönen finished fourth and set the fastest lap of the race for the sixth time in a row. In Germany he was sixth. In Hungary, Räikkönen started from sixth on the grid, as in the previous race, and finished third. In the next race, in Valencia, Räikkönen was forced to retire due to an engine failure. Prior to that, he had been in the pits and had started the race before the start signal, resulting in an injury to a garage mechanic. The cause of the engine failure was the same as that of Felipe Massa in Hungary.[72]

Räikkönen started from the fourth grid position in Belgium. He managed to take the lead right from the start and fought a long battle for victory against McLaren's Lewis Hamilton. After the race, however, Räikkönen revealed that he would have come to the pits for rain tyres if he hadn't hit a wall.[73] In Monza, Italy, Ferrari announced Räikkönen's contract extension until 2010.[74] In qualifying, the rain made it difficult for Räikkönen, and he suffered a rare crash in the second session. In the race, Räikkönen finished ninth and again set the fastest lap of the race.[75]

Going into the Singapore GP, Räikkönen started from the third grid position, but after several safety car laps, he lost positions and eventually retired.[76] In Japan, he finished third but lost his chance for the world championship. [77] In the Chinese GP, Räikkönen started from the second grid position but passed his team-mate Felipe Massa (who was still in the World Championship fight) to finish third in the race.[78] In Brazil, Räikkönen finished third for the third consecutive time.[79]

Räikkönen was third in the final points for the season[80] and also equalled his own record for the fastest laps of the season (10).
2009 season
The opening race of the season in Australia was a showcase for the results team Brawn GP. Räikkönen started from the seventh grid position but was unable to challenge the leading cars. With five laps to go, Räikkönen crashed into a track wall, probably due to a driving error, damaging his front wing. Eventually, the garage advised him to stop as a precautionary measure due to a differential failure two laps before the finish. In Malaysia, Räikkönen was forced to stop the car due to a problem with the insulation in the KERS system.
In China, Ferrari decided to run without KERS because of reliability problems, even though both drivers would have liked to use the system. Räikkönen eventually finished tenth in the race. In Bahrain, Räikkönen finished tenth in qualifying, but eventually moved up to sixth in the race and took Ferrari's first points of the season. For Spain, the Ferrari team received new parts for its car. Räikkönen was left in the first part of qualifying, as he and the team assumed that the time he had already set would be enough for the rest of the race. However, this was not the case and Räikkönen finished 16th on the grid. In the race, Räikkönen was forced to retire due to hydraulic problems in the car. In Monaco, Räikkönen took his best grid position of the season so far after finishing second in qualifying. In the race, Räikkönen also achieved his best result of the season so far, finishing third behind the Brawn drivers. In Turkey, Räikkönen started on grid 6 but finished just outside the points in ninth place. In Britain, Räikkönen started from grid 9, but immediately after the start he moved up to fifth. However, a failed pit stop dropped him to eighth.

In Germany, Räikkönen was seventh until he collided with Adrian Sutil, but was able to continue. He retired due to an engine failure caused by a damaged radiator. At the Hungarian GP at the Hungaroring, Räikkönen scored his second podium finish of the season, coming second.[81] Räikkönen started from grid position seven and finished fourth.

In Valencia, Räikkönen beat new team-mate Luca Badoer in qualifying and took his second best grid position of the season, sixth. At the start Räikkönen was fourth. Räikkönen managed to overtake Heikki Kovalainen at the second pit stop to take third place and held on to the position until the end. In Belgium, Räikkönen managed to win the race from sixth on the grid, battling with Fisichella from the start to the finish. In qualifying for the Italian GP, Räikkönen was third and came second on the grid, ahead of Force India's Adrian Sutil. Both Brawn drivers drove a one-stop tactic to take a double victory. Räikkönen moved up to third after Hamilton hit the wall on the final lap.

After the Singapore GP, rumours of Alonso's move to Ferrari were confirmed when it was announced that he would replace Räikkönen next season. According to Ferrari CEO Luca di Montezemolo, Kim's shortcomings lay in his reticence and inability to show emotion, as well as in his poor performances. Räikkönen himself said that the real reason for his dismissal was the Santander sponsorship deal and Santander's desire to bring Alonso into the team.[82] In 2014, Räikkönen said after his dismissal that he was disappointed and burnt out. As a result, he decided to do "something completely different."[83]

At the Japanese GP, Räikkönen finished fourth.[84] At the Brazilian GP, Räikkönen collided with Mark Webber on the grid and dropped to sixth in the race. In the season-ending Abu Dhabi GP, Räikkönen was twelfth. He finished sixth in the final points standings of the World Championship[85].
In the autumn of 2011, Räikkönen was rumoured to return to Formula 1 with Williams for the 2012 season.[96] Williams chairman Adam Parr said Räikkönen was very keen to return.[97] According to Parr, Räikkönen's hiring was strongly divided within the team. One member had even called it the "worst mistake" they could make.[98] By the end of the 2011 season, negotiations were rumoured to have broken down over hiring disagreements.[99]

After negotiations with Williams broke down, new rumours of a deal with Lotus began to circulate.[100][101] In late November, Lotus announced that Räikkönen had signed a two-year contract with the team.[102] In February 2012, Räikkönen drove a Formula 1 car for the first time in two years. The drive took place in a test for which Lotus received special permission from the FIA.[103]

Lotus (2012-2013)
2012 season
In qualifying for the season-opening Australian GP, Räikkönen crashed out due to a mistake on the time trial lap, finishing 18th. However, he moved up one place thanks to a grid penalty for Sergio Pérez.[104] Räikkönen's team-mate Romain Grosjean finished third on the grid. He also had a good start, gaining three places.[105] In the race, Räikkönen finished seventh, gaining three places on the final lap.[106] In the second race of the season, in Malaysia, Räikkönen beat his team-mate and, despite a few mistakes, finished fifth in qualifying, showing the competitiveness of Lotus. [107] However, a penalty for changing the gearbox dropped Kim to 10th on the grid, and Räikkönen also finished the race in fifth place, setting the fastest lap time of the race.[108]

At the Chinese GP, Räikkönen was already fighting for a podium finish, having finished second with only 7 laps to go. However, in just 15 seconds he dropped to 14th place after running out of tyre performance. In the fourth race of the season in Bahrain, Räikkönen finished second on the 11th grid and took the podium for the first time since his return. He battled for victory with Red Bull's Sebastian Vettel but could not overtake him. In the Spanish GP, Räikkönen started from the fourth grid position. He overtook his team-mate Grosjean at the start and finished third. Räikkönen held on to third place until the finish. In the process, he moved up to fourth in the World Championship points. At the Monaco GP, Räikkönen started from eighth on the grid, but poor tactics by the team left him ninth in the race. In the Canadian GP, Räikkönen finished eighth. Räikkönen made his third podium finish of the season in Valencia, where he finished second. His rise to the top was helped considerably by the technical failures of Vettel and Grosjean, who were leading the race. In the British GP that followed, Räikkönen finished fifth, setting the fastest lap of the race. In the German GP, Räikkönen finished fourth but was later promoted to third after Vettel, who was second, was dropped to fifth with a time penalty. In the Hungarian GP, Räikkönen fought for victory with McLaren's Lewis Hamilton but finished second. In the Belgian GP, Räikkönen achieved his best qualifying position of the season by finishing third on the grid. He maintained his position throughout the race.

Räikkönen won the Abu Dhabi GP by surprise when McLaren's Lewis Hamilton retired. Fernando Alonso of Ferrari, who finished second, was 0.8 seconds behind. During the race, Räikkönen's radio conversation with the team attracted a lot of attention,[109] including his response to race engineer Simon Rennie's[110] instructions to "Leave me alone, I know what I'm doing" and his response to a reminder to warm up the tyres "Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, you don't have to remind me every second". [111] After the race, 500 t-shirts with the slogan "Leave me alone, I know what I'm doing" were ordered from the Lotus factory in Räikkönen's name. [112] In the post-race podium interviews, Räikkönen and third-placed Sebastian Vettel cursed, prompting the FIA to issue a public warning to F1 teams about the drivers' language.[113] In the US GP, Räikkönen set a new record by completing a total of 1,121 consecutive laps without stopping, breaking the previous record of 1,120 laps.[114] In the season-ending race in Brazil, Räikkönen finished tenth.

Räikkönen eventually finished third in the World Championship series. During the season, he became the first driver ever to finish all 20 races of the season and to score points in 19 races during the season. Räikkönen became the fourth driver to finish every race of the season. Graham Hill (1962), Michael Schumacher (2002) and Nick Heidfeld (2008) had previously done so.

Season 2013
The start of the 2013 season was marked by discussions about the tyre compounds to be used in races and the possible tyre replacement by Lotus. Räikkönen started the opening race of the 2013 season, the Australian GP, from seventh on the grid to claim his twentieth career victory, equalling Mika Häkkinen in terms of wins.115 Räikkönen needed one less pit stop than his rivals to win, which was interpreted as the new Lotus car being very gentle on the tyres.[116]

At the Malaysian GP, Räikkönen held the fastest pace in dry conditions during Friday's practice, but a downpour in the third qualifying session dropped him to seventh on the grid. Räikkönen was later given a three-grid penalty after the jury deemed him to have blocked Nico Rosberg. Räikkönen finished seventh in the race. In qualifying for the Chinese GP, Räikkönen finished second - the best in Lotus' history to that point and Räikkönen's first front row grid return. At the start of the race, Räikkönen dropped to fourth after the car skidded on the grid. On lap 16, Räikkönen collided lightly with Sergio Pérez in an attempt to overtake him and suffered a hole in the front of his car, which slowed him down by an estimated 0.25 seconds per lap.[117] Despite this, Räikkönen still managed to finish the race in second place. He also finished second in the Bahrain and Spanish GPs, equaling Nick Heidfeld's record for consecutive finishes (33).[118] The title went to Räikkönen alone in the Monaco GP, where he finished tenth. Räikkönen was still running in fifth place with 7 laps to go, until a puncture caused by Sergio Pérez's attempted overtaking dropped him out of the points. However, Räikkönen managed to finish tenth in the race and continue his points streak.[119]

At the Canadian GP, Räikkönen finished ninth, breaking Michael Schumacher's points streak of 24 consecutive races.[120] Räikkönen took over Schumacher's record in full by finishing fifth at the British GP. [121] Räikkönen moved up to second place in the race in the closing stages, but because he did not change his tyres when the safety car entered the track, he dropped to fifth in the race after Webber, Alonso and Hamilton overtook him on better tyres.[122]

In the German GP, Räikkönen fought for the race win with Sebastian Vettel, losing by a second. The result was Räikkönen's career best in the German GP.[123] In the Hungarian GP, Räikkönen started from the sixth grid position in second place, behind third-placed Sebastian Vettel. In the process, Räikkönen equalled Senna and Schumacher's record for podium finishes in the Hungarian GP.[124] In the Belgian GP, Räikkönen retired for the first time since the 2009 German GP after a front brake failure. This snapped Räikkönen's record 27 race points streak and 38 race finishes[125] Räikkönen would have needed three race finishes to break Nick Heidfeld's record of 41 races.

At the Italian GP, Räikkönen failed in qualifying, finishing 11th. In the race, Räikkönen collided with Sergio Perez at the start and narrowly missed out on the points.[126] In the Singapore GP, Räikkönen was assisted by a safety car from the thirteenth grid position to finish third.[127] In the process, Räikkönen recorded his 28th career third place finish, breaking Rubens Barrichello's record for career third place finishes in races.source? In the Korean GP, Räikkönen finished second after starting the race from the ninth grid position. At the Japanese GP, Räikkönen qualified ninth on the grid[128] and finished fifth in the race, spectacularly overtaking Nico Hülkenberg at the end of the race.[129]

At the Indian GP, Räikkönen started from the sixth grid position. He was second for a long time but dropped to seventh after running out of tyre performance.[130] Räikkönen set the fastest lap of the race on the final lap after changing tyres. Running second, Räikkönen tried to defend his position against team-mate Grosjean, angering the team's chief engineer Alan Perman. Permane ordered Räikkönen to stop via the team radio: "Kimi, get the fuck out of the way!", to which Räikkönen replied: "Don't fucking shout at me."[131] After the race, Permane said in an interview with Auto, Motor und Sport that he was "very disappointed" with Kimi[132] and claimed on Twitter, according to Aftonbladet, that he had received death threats from Räikkönen's fans because of his radio message. [133] Räikkönen's rebellion received a lot of attention in the international media,[134] with both manager Steve Robertson and Mika Häkkinen defending Räikkönen, who felt that Perme's shouting and swearing had been inappropriate.[135] The following weekend before the Abu Dhabi GP, Räikkönen did not attend Thursday's press conference. Although Räikkönen had previously skipped events, the decision was interpreted as a protest against the team's behaviour. According to garage rumours reported by Motorsport.com, Räikkönen threatened to skip the race altogether.[136] Later, Räikkönen admitted that he had considered dropping out of the race because Lotus had not paid his salary.[137] Räikkönen finished fifth in qualifying but had to start the race from the last grid position because the car's bottom plate was more flexible than permitted. He retired on the first lap after hitting the rear wheel of Giedo van der Garden, breaking his front suspension.

A week before the US GP, manager Steve Robertson announced that Räikkönen would withdraw from the last two races of the season due to back surgery. Räikkönen's back problems had worsened after the Abu Dhabi GP to the point where he could only sleep thanks to strong painkillers. Räikkönen's back was operated on in Salzburg the day before the free practice sessions, forcing him to take a four-week sick leave[138], thus ending his Lotus career prematurely. [139] Räikkönen's replacement was thought to be Lotus test driver Davide Valsecchi and Sauber's Nico Hülkenberg, until Lotus announced that Heikki Kovalainen would back Räikkönen in the final two races of the season.[140] Räikkönen finished his final season at Lotus fifth in the series, having finished third in the series before the US GP. Räikkönen beat Grosjean 10-7 in the season's time trial.

Return to Ferrari (2014-2018)
On 11 September 2013, Ferrari announced on its website that it had signed Räikkönen to a two-year contract.[141] Ferrari team principal Stefano Domenicali said he was pleased to have Räikkönen back at the team,[142] while former Ferrari sporting director Cesare Fiorio said Räikkönen was the wrong choice as a driver.[143]

2014 season
In the first qualifying session of the season at the Australian GP, Räikkönen finished only 12th after spinning off the track at the end of the second qualifying session. Räikkönen eventually finished the race in eighth place.[144] Later, Räikkönen's position was up a notch when second-placed Daniel Ricciardo was disqualified for excessive fuel flow.[144][145]

In the Malaysian GP, Räikkönen was among the top three fastest in both Friday and Saturday's practice sessions.[146] In the rainy qualifying session, Räikkönen finished sixth.[146] In the race, Räikkönen dropped to the back of the pack after Kevin Magnussen hit the rear tyre of his car. Räikkönen eventually finished the race outside the points in 12th place.[146][147]

At the Bahrain GP, Räikkönen qualified fifth in qualifying, but in the race, Ferrari's pace was not enough to challenge the Mercedes-powered teams, and Räikkönen dropped to tenth in the final points race.[148][149]

At the Chinese GP, Räikkönen failed in a rainy qualifying session, finishing 11th.[150] In the race, Räikkönen finished eighth.[151][152]

In the Spanish GP, Räikkönen finished seventh.[153]

At the Monaco GP, Räikkönen got off to a good start, starting from sixth on the grid and finishing fourth. Räikkönen moved up another place when Vettel, who was in front, ran into technical problems. Räikkönen was on course for his first podium finish for Ferrari since his return, but during the safety car, Marussia's Max Chilton hit Kim's car during an overtaking attempt, forcing Räikkönen to make an extra pit stop and drop out of the points. Räikkönen was running in eighth place when he tried to overtake Kevin Magnussen at the end of the race on the Loews Muddy, but the overtake failed and both cars hit the track edge. Räikkönen and Magnussen were able to continue, and Räikkönen pitted for a front wing and new tyres, setting the fastest lap of the race, the 40th of his career. Räikkönen eventually finished 12th.[154] After the race, Magnussen taunted Räikkönen, claiming that he had become old and drunk before the race.[155][156] At the Canadian GP, Räikkönen drove the 200th GP of his career. In the race, Räikkönen eventually finished in tenth place on the final points standings due to other retirements.[157] Räikkönen also finished tenth in the Austrian GP. In the British GP, Räikkönen's qualifying was marred by rain and he finished 20th on the grid. In the race, Kimi was forced to retire for the first time this season after going wide in a corner and losing control of the car while trying to get back on track after hitting a wall. Räikkönen was not seriously injured in the crash. In the German GP, Räikkönen finished 11th outside the points. In the Hungarian GP, Räikkönen was only 17th in qualifying after Ferrari assumed he had enough time for the second session, but Jules Bianchi of Marussia set a faster time than Räikkönen at the end of the first session. Räikkönen managed to finish the race in sixth place.

In the Belgian race, Räikkönen fought with Valtteri Bottas for the podium[158] until the final laps and finished fourth, Räikkönen's best finish of the season. In the process, Kimi passed the 1 000 World Championship points mark. Räikkönen scored only 55 points during the season, finishing 12th in the series, his worst ever season in Formula 1.[159] In the season's qualifying standings, Räikkönen lost to his team-mate Fernando Alonso by a wide margin of 16-3.

2015 season
For the 2015 season, Räikkönen found a new team-mate after Fernando Alonso left the team. Alonso was replaced by Sebastian Vettel, who left Red Bull. The winter tests showed that Ferrari's speed had improved from the previous season.

In the opening Australian GP of the F1 season, Räikkönen started from fifth on the grid. At the start, Carlos Sainz Jr. hit Räikkönen's car, dropping him to eighth. A puncture caused problems which forced Räikkönen to retire from the race. After the race, Ferrari team principal Maurizio Arrivabene praised Räikkönen's pace, while according to the Italian magazine Autosprint, Räikkönen himself caused the bolt to break by releasing the clutch on his first pit stop, causing the bolt gun to break the bolt's thread[160][161][162][163][164][165].

At the Malaysian GP, Räikkönen was even challenging the Mercedes cars in practice. A downpour in the second part of the qualifying session dropped Räikkönen to 11th on the grid. In the race, Felipe Nasr caused Räikkönen to suffer a puncture, dropping him to last place. However, Räikkönen finished fourth, his best result of the season. Räikkönen was also fourth in the Chinese GP. At the Bahrain GP, Räikkönen made his first podium finish since his Ferrari retirement after finishing second. He also set the fastest lap of the race, joining Alain Prost as the second fastest driver of all time (41).[166][167] Räikkönen was also the fastest in practice in Bahrain.[168] At the Canadian GP, Räikkönen set his best qualifying time of the season, starting the race from the third grid position. In the race, Räikkönen was running third until he spun after his pit stop, allowing Valtteri Bottas to overtake Kim. Räikkönen changed to super-soft tyres for the second pit stop and started a furious chase, but eventually finished fourth in the race. However, Räikkönen set the fastest lap of the race, the 42nd of his career. This put him ahead of Alain Prost as the driver with the second fastest lap. At the Austrian GP, Räikkönen was stopped by Alonso, who was chasing him. In the British GP, Räikkönen was running fifth until it started to rain, and Räikkönen's decision to apply the intermediate tyres too early dropped him to eighth. In Hungary, Räikkönen got off to a good start to finish second in the race. Räikkönen was running second until his car's ERS unit broke and he was forced to retire.

Ahead of the Belgian GP, Ferrari announced that Räikkönen will continue with the team in 2016, ending speculation about a possible replacement for Räikkönen. Among the rumoured replacements for Räikkönen were Valtteri Botta, Nico Hülkenberg and Daniel Ricciardo. In qualifying for the Belgian GP, Räikkönen's car broke down in the second session, and Räikkönen eventually started on grid 16 with other penalties. Räikkönen finished seventh in the race. In the Italian GP, Räikkönen set his best qualifying time of the season, starting from the second grid position. It was Räikkönen's first front row grid position since the 2013 Chinese GP. In the race, Räikkönen's start failed completely due to a slipped clutch and he dropped to last place. Räikkönen eventually finished fifth in the race. At the Singapore GP, Räikkönen scored his second podium of the season, finishing third. In doing so, Räikkönen became the driver with the most third-place finishes in F1 history. Räikkönen has a total of 29 third-place finishes. In the Japanese GP, Räikkönen finished fourth. In the same race, Räikkönen and Ferrari made the fastest pit stop in F1 history, with Ferrari mechanics changing Räikkönen's tyres in just 1.85 seconds.[169] In the Russian GP, Räikkönen made a good start and finished fourth ahead of team-mate Sebastian Vettel, but later in the race lost his position to Vettel. On the final lap of the race, Räikkönen was in fourth place and tried to overtake Valtteri Bottas in third, but they collided and Bottas was forced to retire. However, Räikkönen managed to continue his race and finished fifth, but the jury gave him a 30-second time penalty, which dropped him to eighth. In the US race, Räikkönen skidded on the dry track, breaking his front wing. Räikkönen was able to continue his race but was later interrupted by a brake failure. In the Mexican race, Räikkönen was again forced to retire after a collision with Bottas. In the Brazilian race, Räikkönen was fourth. In the season-ending race in Abu Dhabi, Räikkönen finished third. He finished fourth in the World Championship with a total of 150 points. During the season he was on the podium three times.

2016 season
Räikkönen was forced to retire in the first race of the season at the Australian GP due to an overheating turbo. The turbo caught fire after he had already driven to the pits. However, the engine was not damaged beyond repair.[170] In the second race of the season, at the Bahrain GP, Räikkönen finished second. It was Räikkönen's eighth podium finish at the Bahrain GP. At the same time, Räikkönen overtook Ayrton Senna in the overall podium (81-80).[171] In the Chinese GP, Räikkönen started from third on the grid but collided with teammate Vettel at the start and dropped to the tail of the race. He eventually managed to finish fifth, overtaking Lewis Hamilton and Felipe Massa among others at the end. In the Russian GP, Räikkönen finished third, his 700th podium finish for the Ferrari team. In the Spanish GP, Räikkönen fought for the race win with Max Verstappen but could not overtake him and finished the race in second place. In the Monaco GP, Räikkönen hit a wall on a rain-slicked track and retired from the race. In the Canadian GP, Räikkönen finished sixth. Räikkönen returned to the podium in Austria, finishing third on the final lap after a collision with the Mercedes drivers. In early July, Ferrari announced that Räikkönen's contract would be extended for the 2017 season.[172] The Silverstone GP on 10 July was Räikkönen's 100th GP for Ferrari, and he finished fifth, beating team-mate Sebastian Vettel to move up to third in the overall points.[173] At the Hungarian GP, Räikkönen failed to qualify in the rain and only started from 14th on the grid. In the race, Räikkönen managed to finish sixth, setting the fastest lap of the race. In the German GP, Räikkönen was also sixth. In the Belgian GP, Räikkönen set his best qualifying time of the season, starting the race from the third grid position, just 17 hundredths of a second behind front-runner Max Verstappen. At the start of the race, Räikkönen's team-mate Vettel hit Kim, resulting in Räikkönen hitting Verstappen. As a result of the resulting puncture, Kimi dropped to last place in the race but managed to finish ninth. Räikkönen finished fourth in the Italian GP. The same position was repeated in the Singapore GP and the Malaysian GP. In the Japanese GP, Kimi was fifth. In the US GP, Kimi was forced to retire after a tyre failure. In the Mexican GP, Räikkönen was sixth. In the Brazilian GP, Räikkönen started the rainy race from the third grid position, but was forced to retire after spinning into a wall on a wet track. In the season-ending Abu Dhabi GP, Räikkönen was sixth. Räikkönen finished sixth in the points standings, beating Vettel narrowly 11-10 in the time trial.

Season 2017
Before the start of the season, Räikkönen set the fastest time of the Barcelona tests with a time of 1m 18.634s, suggesting an improvement in Ferrari's pace. In the season-opening Australian GP, Räikkönen finished fourth with the fastest lap of the race. It was Räikkönen's sixth fastest lap in the Australian GP. In China, Räikkönen dropped to fifth after starting from grid position four. In Bahrain, Räikkönen was fourth. At the Russian GP in Sochi, Räikkönen started from the second grid position for the first time since the 2015 Italian GP. Räikkönen was third in the race, where Valtteri Bottas won his first race. For the second time this season, Räikkönen set the fastest lap of the race. On the first lap of the Spanish GP, Räikkönen was forced to retire after a collision with Valtteri Bottas and Max Verstappen. At the Monaco GP, Räikkönen finished just ahead of Vettel on pole, his first pole position in almost nine years since the 2008 French GP and 128 races.[174] In the process, Räikkönen broke Giancarlo Fisichella's record of 109 races, the longest time between two pole positions. Räikkönen's time was also the fastest pole time ever recorded in Monaco. In the race, Räikkönen led the race until the pit stop, after which Räikkönen's team-mate Vettel overtook Kim to win the race after Räikkönen finished second. In Canada, Räikkönen finished seventh after suffering brake problems at the end of the race. In Azerbaijan, Räikkönen collided with Valtteri Bottas on the first lap, and later in the race suffered a puncture that damaged the car's floor and rear wing. Räikkönen's car was restored to race condition during the red flags, but Räikkönen was already a couple of laps behind the leader and eventually retired from the race. In Austria, Räikkönen was fifth. In the British GP, Räikkönen started from the front row and was running second until a puncture at the end of the race dropped him to third. In the Hungarian GP, Räikkönen started from the front row for the second time and finished second in the race, with team-mate Vettel winning the race. It was Räikkönen's eighth podium finish in the Hungarian GP. Räikkönen was fourth in the Belgian GP and fifth in the Italian GP. In the Singapore GP, Räikkönen was forced to retire after a collision with Max Verstappen and Sebastian Vettel at the start of the race.[175] In the Malaysian GP, Räikkönen would have started from the front row, but his car failed on the way to the grid and he was unable to take part in the race at all.[176] Räikkönen's car failed on the way to the grid. In the Japanese GP, Räikkönen had to start from the tenth grid position due to a gearbox change, but finished the race in fifth place. In the US GP, Räikkönen finished fourth, but he eventually finished third after Max Verstappen, who was still driving for him, was given a five-second time penalty after the jury deemed him to have overtaken Räikkönen on the final lap of the race in an illegal manner. Räikkönen also finished third in the Mexican GP, taking his 90th career podium. In the Brazilian GP, Räikkönen was again third. In the season-ending Abu Dhabi GP, Räikkönen was fourth. Räikkönen finished the season fourth in the world championship points.

In November, in a vote organised by F1 Racing magazine, Räikkönen was voted the Ferrari team's second best driver of all time. He was only beaten by Michael Schumacher. Räikkönen received 12.4% of the vote.[177]

2018 season
In the pre-season test in Barcelona, Räikkönen set the second fastest lap time of the test on the new hyper-soft tyres, demonstrating Ferrari's speed. Teammate Vettel set the fastest time of the test, just 0.039 seconds faster than Räikkönen.

In the first qualifying session of the season in Australia, Räikkönen finished second on the grid, beating Vettel by just a hundredth of a second. Räikkönen also became the Finnish driver with the most front row grid positions, overtaking Mika Häkkinen's record.[178] Räikkönen finished the race in third place. Vettel tactically took the win with a well-timed pit stop to overtake Räikkönen and race leader Hamilton. In the second race of the season in Bahrain, Räikkönen was second in qualifying, but was forced to retire from third place after the team failed to change a tyre: he was given the green light to start even though the second rear tyre had not yet been changed, and as a result one of the mechanics was run over by Räikkönen's car. The person who changed the tyre broke his leg in two places.[179]

At the Chinese GP, Räikkönen finished on the front row for the third time in a row, losing pole position to Vettel by just 87 thousandths of a second. In the race, Räikkönen dropped to fourth at the start due to Vettel's cover, and when Ferrari delayed the pit stop Räikkönen dropped to sixth, but when the safety car entered the track Räikkönen managed to move up to third in the race. At the Azerbaijan GP, Räikkönen made a mistake in the final qualifying session and finished sixth. In the race, Räikkönen collided with Esteban Ocon on the first lap and dropped out of the points, but eventually managed to finish second in the race thanks to a safety car following a crash with the Red Bull drivers, a driving mistake by Vettel and a puncture by Bottas. At the same time, Räikkönen broke Michael Schumacher's record by finishing on the podium in 26 different races[180]. At the Spanish GP, Räikkönen was forced to retire due to a technical problem. In the Monaco GP, Räikkönen finished fourth. At the Canadian GP, Räikkönen was sixth. In the French GP, Räikkönen managed to climb from sixth on the grid to third. In the Austrian GP, Räikkönen finished second and also set the fastest lap of the race with a time of 1.06.957, the fastest ever set in that race.

In the British GP, Räikkönen crashed into Hamilton at the third corner after the start and was given a 10-second time penalty and two penalty points. In the German GP, Räikkönen again finished third, taking his 98th career podium, overtaking Fernando Alonso in career podium finishes. At the Hungarian GP, Räikkönen was marginally faster than Vettel in qualifying. He again finished third in the race. In the Belgian GP, Räikkönen was on the pace in practice, but in the third qualifying session Räikkönen's car ran out of fuel due to a mistake by the garage, which meant that Räikkönen was unable to improve his time and finished sixth. During the race, Daniel Ricciardo crashed into the rear of Räikkönen's car, puncturing the rear tyre and damaging the rear wing. Räikkönen was eventually forced to retire from the race, ending his streak of five consecutive podium finishes.

In the Italian GP, Räikkönen scored his 18th career pole position with the fastest lap ever in F1 history with an average hourly speed of 263.587 km/h, breaking Juan Pablo Montoya's 2004 record of 262.242 km/h[182]. Räikkönen also set a new official Monza lap record of 1.19.119, breaking Montoya's previous record of 1.19.525. Räikkönen finished second in the race after Lewis Hamilton overtook him with eight laps to go. Räikkönen also scored his 100th career podium finish. In the Singapore GP, Räikkönen was fifth. In the Russian GP, Räikkönen finished fourth, scoring the 200th points of his career. In the US GP, Räikkönen took his 21st career victory, overtaking Mika Häkkinen as the Finnish driver with the most wins. The victory was Räikkönen's first since the 2013 Australian GP and his first in a Ferrari since the 2009 Belgian GP. Räikkönen also broke Riccardo Patrese's record for the longest time between two wins by going 113 races without a victory. Räikkönen also broke Michael Schumacher's record for the longest time between his first and last win at 15 years and 212 days. Räikkönen also became the only driver to have managed a victory with a V10, V8 and V6 engine in different eras[183]. In the Mexican GP, Räikkönen finished third with 10 laps to go after Ricciardo's engine failure. In the process, Räikkönen scored his seventh third place of the season, equalling Mark Webber's record for third place finishes in a season. Räikkönen also overtook Fernando Alonso in the number of career points finishes.[184]

In the penultimate race of the season in Brazil, Räikkönen finished third, overtaking teammate Vettel in the number of podium finishes, 12-11, although Vettel has more points overall.[185] At the same time, Räikkönen took over Webber's record with his eighth third place finish of the season and eclipsed his own record for the number of podium finishes in a season. In the final race of the season in Abu Dhabi, Räikkönen was forced to retire due to an electrical fault. Räikkönen scored 251 points in his final season with Ferrari, finishing third in the series in points. For the fifth time, Räikkönen was voted Finnish Motor Sportsman of the Year by the AKK.[186]

Alfa Romeo (2019-2021)
2019 season
Kimi Räikkönen joins Sauber-sponsored Alfa Romeo as a racing driver for 2019 and 2020, replaced by young Charles Leclerc. In effect, he will remain under the same roof, with the FIAT group, only moving to Alfa Romeo for the 2019 season after years at Ferrari. Both Ferrari and Alfa Romeo belong to the FIAT group. [187][188] Räikkönen finished eighth in the season-opening Australian GP. At the Bahrain GP, Räikkönen set a new record by finishing in the top ten in qualifying for the 53rd consecutive time.[189] In the race, Räikkönen finished seventh. At the Chinese GP, Räikkönen's qualifying record streak was snapped when he finished 13th. In the race, Räikkönen managed to get into the points with a ninth place finish. In the Azerbaijan GP, Räikkönen lost for the first time to his team-mate Antonio Giovinazzi in qualifying after Giovinazzi finished eighth and Räikkönen ninth. Räikkönen was forced to start the race from the pits after his qualifying session was disqualified due to an illegal front wing[190]. In the race, Räikkönen managed to finish the final points race in tenth place. At the Spanish GP, Räikkönen's points streak was snapped after he finished 14th in the race. At the Monaco GP, Räikkönen took part in the 300th race of his career. At Monaco, Räikkönen was 17th in the race. At the Canadian GP, Räikkönen missed the first qualifying session for the first time since the 2015 Austrian GP. Räikkönen was 15th in the race. In the French GP, Räikkönen returned to the points after finishing eighth. Later, Räikkönen was promoted to seventh after Daniel Ricciardo, who was still driving, was penalised after overtaking Lando Norris and Räikkönen in a race against the rules[191]. In the Austrian GP, Räikkönen started from the sixth grid position and, after a great start, was briefly as high as fourth, but eventually finished the race in ninth place. In the British GP, Räikkönen finished eighth. In the German GP, Räikkönen set his best qualifying time of the season, finishing fifth on the grid. In the race, Räikkönen was briefly as high as third at the start and finished seventh after a colourful start in a rainy race, but was later given a 30-second time penalty, which dropped him to 12th when his car was found to have an illegal clutch system[192]. In the Hungarian GP, Räikkönen finished seventh, holding off Valtteri Bottas and others. In the Belgian GP, Räikkönen collided with Max Verstappen at the start and finished 16th in the race. In the Italian GP, Räikkönen hit the wall in the third qualifying session and started the race from the pits. In the race, Räikkönen was penalised after starting on the wrong tyres due to a mistake by the garage and ended up 15th[193]. In the Singapore GP, Räikkönen was forced to retire after being hit by Daniil Kvjat in an overtaking situation, which caused the front suspension of Räikkönen's car to break. Räikkönen surpassed Michael Schumacher and Jenson Button in the number of F1 races run in the Russian GP[194]. In the race, Räikkönen received a pit stop penalty for a false start and finished 13th in the race. In the Japanese GP, Räikkönen finished 14th, but was subsequently promoted to 12th with the disqualification of both Renault drivers. In the Mexican GP, Räikkönen was forced to retire due to engine overheating 11 laps from the finish[195]. In the US GP, Räikkönen narrowly missed out on points, finishing 11th. At the Brazilian GP, Räikkönen achieved his best result of the season, finishing the race in fourth place after a colourful sequence of stages, breaking his career-longest streak of seven consecutive points-free races. Räikkönen was close to third when Carlos Sainz, who was still driving for him, was investigated after the race for opening his rear wing in a yellow flag area, but Sainz was not penalised[196]. In the season-ending Abu Dhabi GP, Räikkönen overtook Fernando Alonso in the number of career GP weekends driven. In the race, Räikkönen finished 13th. In his first Alfa Romeo season, Räikkönen scored 43 points and finished 12th in the series.

Season 2020
After the opening race of the 2020 season in Australia was cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic, the season could exceptionally only start in July in Austria, where two races were held on consecutive weekends. On the first race weekend, Räikkönen started from 19th on the grid. During the race, Räikkönen had already climbed to 11th place with a number of interruptions before being forced to retire due to a tyre failure. In the next race in Styria, Räikkönen finished 11th. In qualifying for the Hungarian GP, Räikkönen finished on the last grid position for the first time in his career without any penalties or technical problems with his car. In the race, Räikkönen received a five-second time penalty for being outside the grid before the start. He eventually finished 15th. In the British GP, Räikkönen's front wing broke at the end of the race and he was the last driver to finish in 17th place. Räikkönen overtook Fernando Alonso's record to become the driver with the most career finishes. In the 70th anniversary race of the F1 series at Silverstone, Räikkönen broke Michael Schumacher's record to become the driver with the most GP laps[197]. In the race, Räikkönen used a one-stop tactic to start from the last grid position in 15th place. At the Spanish GP, Räikkönen qualified for the second qualifying session for the first time this season, starting the race from 14th on the grid, breaking his streak of six consecutive races of qualifying in the first session. Räikkönen finished 14th in the race. In the process, Räikkönen took over the record held by Fernando Alonso to become the driver with the most career race kilometres[198]. In the Belgian GP, Räikkönen finished 12th, beating both Ferrari drivers in the race. In the Italian GP, Räikkönen briefly moved up to second place after a restart caused by a safety car and Leclerc's retirement, but was eventually relegated to 13th place due to Alfa Romeo's slow pace. In the first Tuscany GP at the Mugello circuit, Räikkönen started from grid 13 and collided with Pierre Gasly and Max Verstappen at the start, damaging his car, but was able to continue the race, dropping to the tail of the field. Later, Räikkönen managed to avoid a pile-up ahead of him and after a restart dropped to 12th after a failed pit stop, but after a second restart managed to climb to eighth, finishing eighth ahead of both Ferrari drivers. Räikkönen eventually finished ninth in the race after receiving a five-second time penalty for crossing the pit lane in the wrong way when entering the pits[199]. Räikkönen also broke his career-longest streak of nine consecutive races without scoring points. In the Russian GP, Räikkönen equalled Rubens Barrichello's record for the number of career GP starts (322), finishing 14th in the race. Räikkönen took over Barrichello's record in full at the Eifel GP at the Nürburgring, where he finished 12th. At the Portuguese GP at the Autódromo Internacional do Algarve in Portimão, Räikkönen overtook Barrichello in the number of career GP weekends in which he has taken part (327). In the race, Räikkönen made a stunning start from 16 grid positions to finish as high as sixth and 11th in the race[200]. In the Emilia-Romagna GP at Imola, Räikkönen scored his second points finish of the season, finishing ninth in the race and, before his only pit stop, was briefly as high as fourth. Räikkönen was also voted Driver of the Day[201]. In the rainy qualifying session for the Turkish GP, Räikkönen finished in the top ten for the first time this season since the 2019 Brazilian GP, finishing eighth, beating even Valtteri Bottas. Räikkönen finished 15th in the race. Räikkönen was 15th in the Bahrain GP and 14th in the Sakhir GP. In the season-ending Abu Dhabi GP, Räikkönen was 12th, the fastest of the Ferrari drivers. Räikkönen scored 4 points during the season, finishing 16th in the series. In the season-long time trial, Räikkönen narrowly lost to Giovinazzi 9-8. In the races, Räikkönen was better in terms of results 12-5.

Season 2021
Räikkönen signed a one-year contract extension with Alfa Romeo in October 2020 and will continue to drive for the team alongside Antonio Giovinaz.[202] This will be Räikkönen's 19th career season, joining the record of 19 F1 seasons held by Rubens Barrichello and Michael Schumacher. In the opening race of the season in Bahrain, Räikkönen narrowly missed out on points, finishing 11th. Räikkönen also became the first driver to complete more than 900 laps in Bahrain after breaking the 900-lap barrier with his 31st lap of the race. [203][204] In the following Emilia-Romagna GP, Räikkönen finished ninth, but was given a 30-second time penalty after the race after he spun behind a safety car before the restart and was illegally bumped back to his previous position after the hose had already crossed the safety car line, dropping Räikkönen to 13th place. [205] In the Portuguese GP, Räikkönen was forced to retire after hitting his team-mate's rear tyre and getting his front wing stuck under the car. In the Spanish GP, Räikkönen used a one-stop tactic to finish 12th, even temporarily in fifth place before his only pit stop. In the Monaco GP, Räikkönen finished 11th, two laps shy of Graham Hill's record for laps completed on the Monaco F1 circuit[206]. In the Azerbaijan GP, Räikkönen finished tenth in the final laps as a result of Verstappen's puncture and Hamilton's retirement. Räikkönen also officially took his opening point of the season, becoming the second driver in F1 history after Michael Schumacher, whose career gap between his first and last F1 point is more than 20 years[207]. In the French GP, Räikkönen finished 17th. In the Styrian GP in Austria, Räikkönen moved up from 18th to 11th place with a one-stop tactic. In the Austrian GP that followed, Räikkönen collided with Sebastian Vettel on the final lap and dropped to 16th in the race. Räikkönen later received a 20-second time penalty and 2 penalty points for the crash. However, Räikkönen was 15th in the race after Nicholas Latif, who was still driving, was given a 30-second time penalty for failing to observe the double yellow flags. At the British GP, Räikkönen was 13th in Saturday's sprint race and was on points in Sunday's main race before his pit stop and was fighting for points at the end of the race until he crashed into Sergio Perez, who tried to overtake him, and dropped to 15th. Räikkönen also became the first driver to race 20 races on the same circuit in his career[208] In the Hungarian GP, Räikkönen started the race from grid 13 and was running in the points after an initial crash at the start, until he was given a 10-second time penalty after he hit Nikita Mazepin's car in the pits, breaking his front bumper after the garage let him go too quickly after a tyre change. Räikkönen eventually finished the race just outside the points in 11th place. Later, Räikkönen was upgraded to the final points position in tenth due to Vettel's retirement. In the Belgian GP, Räikkönen failed in a rainy qualifying session, finishing 19th and later starting the race from the pits. Räikkönen eventually finished 18th in a record-breaking one-lap stint in the rain-interrupted race. As a result, Räikkönen was 9 laps shy of Michael Schumacher's record for the driver with the most laps on the Spanish circuit.

Räikkönen announced in August that he would end his F1 career after the 2021 season.[209] Räikkönen was diagnosed with a coronavirus infection before qualifying for the Dutch GP, forcing him to sit out the race and was replaced by the team's reserve driver Robert Kubica.[210][211] Räikkönen also had to sit out the Italian GP due to a coronavirus infection. Räikkönen made a comeback in the Russian GP, where he managed to finish eighth at the end of the race thanks to rain. This was Räikkönen's best finish of the season so far. Räikkönen was 12th in the Turkish GP. In the US GP, Räikkönen was still in the final points position with five laps to go before he spun due to a driving mistake in the first corners of the track, which dropped him to 13th. At the Mexican GP, Räikkönen set his best qualifying time of the season so far, finishing 12th and starting the race from 10th on the grid, due to grid penalties for drivers who were still driving for him. In the race Räikkönen finished eighth, his best result of the season. At the São Paulo GP in Brazil, Räikkönen spun in the sprint race after hitting Giovinazzi in an attempt to overtake him, dropping to 18th on the grid for the race. Räikkönen eventually started the race from the pits due to a rear wing change, eventually finishing 12th in the race. Räikkönen was 14th in the Qatar GP. In the Saudi Arabian GP, Räikkönen was 15th. In the season-ending Abu Dhabi GP, Räikkönen was forced to retire due to a brake failure. Räikkönen was nevertheless named Driver of the Day[212] In his final F1 season, Räikkönen scored 10 World Championship points, finishing 16th in the series.