Jyrki Juhani Järvilehto, nicknamed JJ Lehto, (born 31 January 1966 in Espoo).

As a Ferrari driver and driver in a small car
Järvilehto's F1 career began in 1989 under the management of Keke Rosberg, when he first became a test driver for Ferrari and then a racing driver for Onyx at the end of the season. He signed a test contract with Ferrari in March 1989.[15] He even had a chance to race for Ferrari after Gerhard Berger was badly injured in the San Marino GP. However, he was considered too inexperienced for the job, and so Osella driver Piercarlo Ghinzan was drafted in to replace Berger. Järvilehdo was supposed to replace Ghinzani in the Osella team, but after Berger's surprisingly quick recovery, no replacement was needed.

After Belgian Bertrand Gachot's dispute with his Onyx team, a seat opened up and Keke Rosberg was able to negotiate a place for Järvilehto for the last four races of the season. His team-mate was the rather experienced Swede Stefan Johansson. The Portuguese GP was Järvilehto's first GP, but the race ended in qualifying. For a while it looked as if he would have made it through to qualifying, but the rear suspension of the car broke. Helsingin Sanomat reported the incident with the headline "Car breakdown ruined qualifying". In the Spanish GP that followed, Järvilehto made it to the grid, but the race ended with a gearbox failure. His team-mate Johansson, on the other hand, made it to the podium after finishing third.In Japan, Järvilehto's races were already left to qualifying. As the Japanese GP was held on the same weekend as the last race in the F3000 series, he did not take part in the F3000 race. In the season-ending Australian GP, Järvilehto again made it to the grid. A very rainy Australian GP highlighted Järvilehto's rain-globe skills. Starting from grid 17, Järvilehto caused a red flag at the first start, but once the race got underway he steadily improved his position and soon found himself in fifth place. However, the car's electronics failed and he was forced to retire from a good position after 27 laps. Before him, however, the famous Ayrton Senna, Nigel Mansell and Gerhard Berger were among those to retire. Järvilehto later reckoned he even had a chance of winning a podium, but said the race was "just one of hundreds".

In the 1990 season, the team and the team-mate were the same. In the first two races, the Onyx ORE-1 car from the previous season was used. Järvilehdo's races in the USA and Brazil were limited to qualifying, but when the new ORE-2 car was introduced, the qualifying races were sometimes survived. In the San Marino GP Järvilehto managed to finish 12th, the first race Järvilehto finished, but in the other races the journey ended in either qualification, retirement or no finish.Onyx withdrew from the series after the Hungarian round, which meant that Järvilehto could not participate in the last six races of the season. Johansson, on the other hand, did not race after the first two races, and Järvilehto's team-mate was replaced by Gregor Foitek.

First points
For the 1991 season Järvilehto moved to the small Scuderia Italia team. His team-mate was the Italian Emanuele Pirro, who had already driven for the team in the 1990 season. The season was full of interruptions for Järvilehto, and there were already problems in the pre-season tests. In the third race of the season, at San Marino, he managed to climb the podium after finishing third, after many drivers had been forced to retire due to the wet track. In the process, he scored the first points of his F1 career, becoming the second Finn to have been on the podium and scored points in an F1 race. It was also the first race in which two Finns finished in the points, with Mika Häkkinen fifth. He did not score any further points during the season. He finished 12th in the Drivers' Championship with four World Championship points.Järvilehto's World Championship finish was his best.
For the 1992 season Järvilehto continued with Scuderia Italia. His team-mate was the Italian Pierluigi Martini. Although Järvilehto did not suffer as many retirements as in the 1991 season, he did not manage to score any points. The car was not very good, and after a difficult Monaco race Järvilehto stated in Autocource 1992-93 "SSDD - same shit, different day".Järvilehto's best finish of the season was seventh in Belgium. Martini, on the other hand, managed two sixth place finishes to score two points.

For the 1993 season Järvilehto moved to the new Swiss Sauber team, where he was partnered by Austrian Karl Wendlinger. Starting from sixth on the grid in the season-opening South African GP, Järvilehto managed to finish fifth and scored two World Championship points. However, he was two laps down and the last driver to finish. Järvilehto still managed to score points in the San Marino race, where he finished fourth. The result was Järvilehto's second best. Right at the end of the race his engine broke down, but as no one was on the same lap as him, he did not lose any positions. He managed to finish in the top ten five times in the final part of the season, but scored no more points. For the whole season he scored 5 points and finished thirteenth in the Drivers' Championship.In terms of World Championship points, it was Järvilehto's best season.

A failed stint at Benetton
Things seemed to have taken a turn for the better when Järvilehto was offered a driving position by top team Benetton for the 1994 season. The team was looking for a suitable driver to partner Michael Schumacher at the turn of the year through testing. A total of five drivers took part in the tests, one of whom was Järvilehto. Michele Alboreto, who would have brought a considerable amount of sponsorship money to the team, was considered the main favourite. However, Järvilehto performed so well in the tests that it was decided to take him on board.

Test accident at Silverstone
Before the season started in January, however, Järvilehto had a serious testing accident at the Silverstone circuit. He was testing the new suspension on the Benetton B194 car when he crashed into the edge of the track at the Stowe mud at the end of the Hangar straight, rear-end first, and seriously injured his neck. His spinal cord was shattered and death was imminent. All he remembered of the accident was that he was lying on his back, unable to move his arms or legs. He was first taken to Northampton Hospital, where he was diagnosed only as having a broken neck. He was later taken to the Clinical Centre, a private hospital in London. He was operated on the following day by a neck specialist, Dr O'Brien. The operation was performed through the throat and lasted eight hours in total.

Initially, there was reluctance to disclose the seriousness of the incident,[40] partly because of sponsorship negotiations, but it could not be kept secret for long. After the operation, Järvilehto went to Mauritius to recover. He said that the pain was unbearable and that he was not comfortable in any position. Later, Järvilehto has regretted his decision to go on a convalescent holiday to Mauritius. He tried unsuccessfully to get himself fit by walking, and it was difficult, especially at first.

Doctors said he would be back to normal after six months, but after only eight weeks he was testing an F1 car. Järvilehto said that the incident did not cause any particular fear, but that it was always on his mind. He had to sit out the first two races of the season, where he was replaced by Dutchman Jos Verstappen.

Järvilehto himself had no recollection of the incident, but he thought the accident was caused by excessive speed. He has also speculated that sub-cooled water or a broken car may have contributed to the incident. Järvilehto later thought that in newer cars his neck would not have been broken because the cab edges had been raised after the 1994 season.

Returning to racing in a semi-conditioned state
The San Marino GP in Imola was Järvilehto's first race of the season. Before the race, he had been unable to drive even half a day of testing due to pain. In practice, the pain was still enormous and he could not support his head properly during the ride due to the poor condition of his neck muscles. In San Marino he was shocked again. Järvilehto's good friend Roland Ratzenberger was killed in qualifying as a result of a bad crash. They had dined together the day before and had come to Imola in the same car. For Järvilehto, the race ended on the grid as he could not get going. In addition, Lotus driver Pedro Lamy drove hard after him. Järvilehto, who was watching the race from the pits, soon experienced another shock: Ayrton Senna had his fatal crash. His mental recovery is said to have bottomed out at this point.

In the next race, the Monaco GP, Järvilehto failed to score any points. However, he managed to finish seventh, which looked promising. The truth was quite different: his neck hurt all the time and he couldn't hold his head up. In his own words, he could only see the track properly on the few straights on the track. Järvilehdo's neck muscles tore and his recovery slowed down. The neck had to be supported more firmly. He himself suggested taking sick leave to get himself fit. His neck seemed to improve and he took part in the next two races.

Järvilehto started the Spanish race in a promising fourth place, which was also the best grid position of his F1 career. In practice, he was the fastest of the field[2], but in the race he was forced to retire after his engine broke down. In the Canadian GP, Järvilehdo's grid position was only 20th, but he managed to finish seventh and moved up to sixth in points after Christian Fittipaldi was disqualified. The points finish was Järvilehdo's last. However, team principal Flavio Briatore decided to sideline him and Verstappen replaced him. Benetton's treatment of Järvilehto has been widely criticised, by whom? as it was seen as investing solely in Michael Schumacher's championship. Järvilehto got behind the wheel of Benetton for two more races while Michael Schumacher served his ban. What had sounded like a promising stint at Benetton lasted only six races, and he scored just one point in the car. Järvilehto drove the last two races of the season for Sauber. He finished 24th in the championship with one point.

Later reflections
Benetton's treatment of Järvilehto after the 1994 accident has been much criticised. Former F1 driver Jonathan Palmer, on the other hand, believes it was a waste of money for the Benetton team to give Järvilehto one of the cars for the 1994 season. Former Benetton team principal Flavio Briatore said in 2007 that he had taken Järvilehto on board as a great promise. According to him, JJ didn't even get the chance to race for them because of an accident.

Järvilehto has said he returned to the wheel too soon after his accident. He said he was fully recovered only a year after the incident at the 24 Hours of Le Mans.

Many aids were found in the Benetton car, including traction control, which had been banned for the 1994 season. According to the garage, the aids were used only for testing and the FIA was unable to prove that they were used illegally in races. It is therefore suspected that Schumacher's car had many aids which were not present in Järvilehdo's and Verstappen's cars.

There were a few odd things going on from time to time. There were buttons that were pressed in a completely different order in the teammate's car. It's hard to say what that meant. - It's hard to prove. It could be that they never existed."
(Jyrki Järvilehto in 2004.)