Keijo Erik "Keke" Rosberg (born 6 December 1948 in Solna, Sweden)
Seasons 1978-1981
In 1978, Rosberg was given the opportunity to compete in Formula 1 when he was hired as a driver by the Theodore team. The team was not one of the best in the series and did not fight for wins. In his first race in South Africa, Rosberg survived qualifying and started the race from 24th on the grid, but was forced to retire due to a fuel leak. The most notable performance of the season was winning the BRDC International Trophy, a non-championship race at the rainy Silverstone circuit. Although it was a non-Championship race, the entry list included some of the best drivers in F1.

Rosberg had no contract at the start of the 1979 F1 season, so he drove a few F2 races in the spring and then signed a contract with the Newman-Freeman team in the North American Can-Am series. Even though he got an F1 team seat in the middle of the season, he still finished the Can-Am series and only lost the championship in the final races.
Around the middle of the 1979 Formula 1 season, Rosberg joined the Wolf team to replace former world champion James Hunt. His pace was occasionally promising, and in the Netherlands he finished 8th in practice. His best race finish was ninth in France.

For the 1980 season, Rosberg was given a seat in the Fittipaldi team, with two-time world champion Emerson Fittipaldi as his number one driver. In Argentina, Rosberg was 13th fastest in practice. In the race itself he overtook one car after another to finish third, and although he had to go to the pits to refuel, he kept his position until the finish. In doing so, he became the first Finn on the Formula 1 podium. Rosberg continued to drive well and was clearly faster than his team-mate Fittipaldi. However, the performance of the stable's cars had diminished relative to the competition and Rosberg only scored World Championship points once during the season. He was still 10th in the World Championship series.

In his second season with Fittipaldi, Rosberg was the team's number one driver when Emerson Fittipaldi retired. It was a disappointing season. The car was one of the weakest in the series, and often Rosberg was part of a retirement or a retirement due to a mechanical failure. He would have liked to move on from the team, but Fittipaldi refused to terminate his contract. He had a contract with the garage until the end of 1982, but managed to leave at the end of the 1981 season, citing unpaid wages.

1982 season
For the 1982 season, Rosberg joined Williams, where for the first time in his career he had a chance to fight for the world championship. He finished fifth in the first race in South Africa,[20] but the next race in Brazil ended in second place. Rosberg was disqualified on one occasion for an illegal water tank, but the disqualification was soon overturned and Rosberg was able to keep his place. He was also second in the Long Beach race[21] and took a clear lead in the World Championship.

Just over a week after the Long Beach race, it was announced that the protests from the Brazilian race had been dealt with and Rosberg and race winner Nelson Piquet had been disqualified. A few teams had lodged protests against Piquet and Rosberg for illegal water tanks. Rosberg lost not only the World Championship lead but also the Brazilian prize money. As a result of the disqualifications, Williams and several other teams decided to boycott the next round in San Marino. The race was expected to lose its World Championship status, but it didn't.

At the next race in Belgium, Rosberg became the first Finn to lead a Formula 1 World Championship race. At the finish, Rosberg was second after making a small mistake on a lap when overtaking, which allowed John Watson to overtake him for the win. In Monaco, Rosberg retired due to his own driving error, in Detroit he was fourth and in Canada the car's gearbox broke down with about 20 laps to go. His third place in the Dutch GP moved him up to third in the World Championship points.

As the season progressed, Rosberg's performances began to be appreciated by the Finnish press, who had previously mainly criticised him.
In Britain, Rosberg achieved the first pole position of his career, but in the race the car died on the grid and Rosberg had to start from the back of the grid. In the end, the race ended with Rosberg retiring due to technical problems with the car.

In France, Rosberg was fifth. The world championship seemed to be slipping away to Didier Piron, who led Rosberg by 16 points. In a rainy practice session in Germany, the world championship race took a twist when Pironi hit the back of Alain Prost's car and almost lost his life. He was hospitalised for a long time and never returned to Formula 1 racing. In the race, Rosberg finished third in the reserve car and was on the podium after a long break. In doing so, Rosberg re-entered the world championship race.
In Austria, Rosberg was close to victory but finished second, losing by five hundredths of a second to Elio de Angelis, and moving up to second in the world championship points. In the next race, the Swiss GP in Dijon, France, Rosberg scored the first victory of his F1 career. The world championship would be up for grabs at the next race. In Italy, however, Rosberg finished eighth, missing out on World Championship points.

Before the final race of the season in Las Vegas, only two drivers had a chance of winning the championship. Rosberg would need just one point to win the championship, otherwise John Watson would take the title with a race win. In the time trial Rosberg was sixth and Watson ninth. After a poor start, Watson gradually worked his way up to the front and was second with about 20 laps to go. Michele Alboreto led the way to the finish. Rosberg was fifth and became the first ever Scandinavian driver to win the Formula 1 World Championship.

Official Finland, under the then Minister of Culture Kalevi Kivistö, took no notice of Rosberg's world championship. Instead, the Speaker of the Finnish Parliament, Johannes Virolainen, who felt that Rosberg had "put Finland on the world map", offered Rosberg a celebratory coffee at the Parliament House during his visit to his home country.

The championship won Rosberg the title of Finland's Sportsman of the Year.

Seasons 1983-1986
Rosberg's second season with Williams in 1983 was a difficult one. The highlight of the season was victory in Monaco. Before the start the track was wet, but drying out. The drivers, with the exception of Rosberg, opted for rain tyres and once the race started the others had to go to the pits to change to dry tyres. Rosberg took the win. He also celebrated on the podium in Detroit after finishing second. However, these were the only podium finishes of the World Championship season and Rosberg finished fifth in the championship standings with a total of 27 points. In 1983, for the last time ever, there was a non-Championship race: the 1983 Race of Champions at Brands Hatch, which Rosberg won.
In 1984, Rosberg was plagued by car unreliability and had to retire a total of eight times. In only one of the last seven races did he finish. The highlight of the season was a victory in Dallas on a slippery and crumbling street circuit. The victory was the first ever pole position in F1 for a Honda turbo engine. Rosberg finished eighth in the final points with 20.5 points.

In 1985, the car continued to have major reliability problems, especially in the early part of the season, but victory in Detroit began to change the situation. Rosberg's run of three podium finishes (including a season-ending victory in Australia) lifted him to third in the championship standings with 40 points. The season will also be remembered for his stunning lap in qualifying at Silverstone. Rosberg took pole position, recording an average speed of 258.9 km/h. This remained the record until the 2000s, when Williams driver Juan Pablo Montoya set a new record in the 2002 Italian GP.

The 1986 season was Rosberg's last in F1. He drove for McLaren, as team-mate to reigning world champion Alain Prost. Rosberg did not win a race that season, finishing on the podium only once and losing by a wide margin to his team-mate. The understeer car was not at all suited to Rosberg's driving style, and it could not be adjusted to suit him throughout the season.

Rosberg announced his retirement from Formula One on the Friday of the Hockenheim race weekend in July. He said he had made the decision two years earlier. At the same time, Rosberg criticised the new fuel limit, which forced drivers to save fuel during the race. He also said he was fed up with the stresses and strains of driving an F1 car, travelling and the frustration of mechanical failures.

In his last F1 race, in Australia, Rosberg retired with a puncture after finishing in the lead. Rosberg finished sixth in the season standings with 22 points.