Mika Juhani Salo (born 30 November 1966 in Helsinki)

First years of F1 career
At the end of the 1994 season, Salo's dream came true when he got to drive a Lotus team car in Formula 1. Lotus had previously run into serious financial problems and had gone into liquidation, with, among other things, unpaid staff salaries. Salo managed to raise several million yen from his supporters. Salo finished tenth in his first race at the Japanese GP and retired in the final race of the season in Australia. These were also the last races for Lotus.

In the 1995-1997 season, Salo raced with a weak Tyrrell team and scored a total of 12 points. The 1996 season was Salo's best of the Tyrrell seasons. In 1998 Salo raced for Arrows, where his best finish was a podium battle with Eddie Irvine in the Monaco GP, but he finished fourth, Salo's best finish of the season.

As a tourer with BAR and Ferrari

For the 1999 season, Salo was left without a seat in the team after Arrows abruptly terminated his contract. However, Salo was able to race in San Marino, Spain and Monaco with the entry-level BAR team while Ricardo Zonta was injured. In Spain he had the honour of being the first driver to take a BAR car to the finish line (8th place).

After three races, Salo again missed F1 work until the eighth race of the season, when Ferrari hired him as a replacement for the injured Michael Schumacher. Schumacher had been injured at the British GP and Ferrari decided to hire Salo, who had done a good job at BAR, as his replacement. This was the first time that Salo had been able to drive a top car in Formula 1. His role was to support Eddie Irvine, who was fighting for the championship.

Salo drove a total of six races for Ferrari, the highlight being the German GP, where he finished second. He had finished fourth in qualifying and came second behind Mika Häkkinen at the start. After setting faster lap times than Häkkinen, narrowing the gap and eventually being stopped by Häkkinen, Salo led the race, but was forced to let Eddie Irvine, who was second on the grid, pass. After the race, however, Irvine thankfully handed over his first prize to Salo, who had handed over the win to the winner of the battle. Salo made it to the podium in the Italian GP, where he finished third. In the other races he failed to score any points and the podium finishes were the only ones of his F1 career.

Last years in F1
For the 2000 season, Salo moved to the Sauber team. In addition to his best finishes of fifth in the Monaco and German GPs, Salo finished sixth twice, scoring a total of six World Championship points, surpassing his team-mate Pedro Diniz, who had not scored any.

By 2001, Salo decided to take up the challenge and moved on to test a new car for the Toyota F1 team, which had started from almost nothing. After a year of testing, Toyota started to compete in the 2002 season. Salo scored one point for the new team in the very first race in Australia, finishing sixth, and he repeated this result in the third race of the season, the Brazilian GP. Despite further good qualifying results, the season was a disappointment for Salo against high expectations. His only two points at the start of the season were his only two, and Toyota did not extend his contract, which led to the end of his F1 career.