Mika Pauli Häkkinen (born 28 September 1968 in the municipality of Helsinki, now the City of Vantaa)

Häkkinen's Formula 1 career began in 1991, when he got to race for Lotus. Although the first time Häkkinen tried an F1 car, it was a Benetton.

Lotus years 1991-1992
Häkkinen's performances in F3 convinced Lotus team manager Peter Collins, who took Häkkinen on board for the 1991 season, and Häkkinen made the unusual leap from F3 straight into F1 at that time. He did well in his debut season in a non-competitive car, with his best performances being 13th place in the first qualifying session and his first World Championship points from the San Marino GP in fifth place.

The 1992 season saw Häkkinen's real breakthrough: Lotus made the car much more competitive, and Häkkinen scored points in six races, finishing fourth in France and Hungary. He scored a total of 11 World Championship points and finished eighth in the World Championship series, a result that also impressed the top teams, including the number one team at the time, Williams. However, the contract with Williams fell through when the team failed to register in time for the 1993 World Championship, which required the unanimous support of the other teams to qualify: Lotus team manager Collins wanted to keep Häkkinen in his team and the contract was not signed.

McLaren years 1993-2001
Test driver
Häkkinen found his place for the 1993 season at McLaren, but he remained as a test driver when the team's number one driver, Ayrton Senna, decided to drive for the team as a racing driver, despite his hesitations. Häkkinen did, however, become a racing driver when Michael Andretti, who had flopped during the season, gave up his place for the last three races of the season. Häkkinen finished ahead of his team-mate Senna, who was considered the best qualifier at the time, in the Estoril qualifying. In the race itself, during an attempt to overtake Ales at the start of the start straight, the McLaren spun off the track and was thrown over the track into the pit wall, causing a wreck and stopping the race. In the next race, the Japanese GP in Suzuka, he made it to the podium for the first time, finishing third. The final race of the season in Adelaide ended in retirement due to a technical problem.

Rising to the role of racing driver
After Senna left McLaren, Häkkinen became the team's clear number one driver for the next two seasons. In the 1994 season, Häkkinen performed superbly in the unreliable McLaren-Peugeot, finishing on the podium six times and second in the Belgian GP. He finished fourth in the World Championship with 26 points. With the exception of the Japanese GP, Häkkinen finished on the podium in every race he finished. The following season in 1995, Mercedes-Benz's first as McLaren's engine supplier, proved to be a difficult one, with Häkkinen's highlights being second places in the Italian and Japanese GPs. Häkkinen's impatient thirst for victory was reflected in a number of crashes and accidents during the season.

The Adelaide accident
In the first qualifying session of the season-ending 1995 Australian GP at the Adelaide circuit, Häkkinen crashed out hard at Brewery Bend due to a left rear tyre puncture. Häkkinen's car ended up in the tyre wall at around 200 kilometres per hour. Häkkinen's head slammed into the steering wheel with tremendous force and he was bouncing back and forth uncontrollably. Häkkinen suffered serious neck injuries and a fractured skull. He lapsed into a coma. However, Häkkinen survived the accident and recovered in time for the first race of the following season in Melbourne.

Seasons 1996-1997
Häkkinen proved his competitiveness after the serious accident by racing better than his fresh team-mate David Coulthard throughout the 1996 season, finishing third four times in the final season, scoring 31 World Championship points and finishing fifth in the World Championship points.

In 1997, Häkkinen was plagued by an unreliable car and, in particular, engine trouble: he was forced to retire from the lead at the British, Austrian and Luxembourg GPs at the Nürburgring, where he also took the first pole position of his career. However, Häkkinen won his first race in the season-ending European GP at Jerez, after being held back by team-mate Coulthard and championship-chasing Williams driver Jacques Villeneuve. It was the first GP win for a Finnish driver in 12 years, the previous victory coming from Keke Rosberg in the 1985 Australian GP.

Two championships
In the 1998 season, Häkkinen fought his first championship battle against Ferrari's Michael Schumacher. The season was a showcase for these drivers: only twice during the season did victory go to another driver. The colourful championship battle reached its climax when, two GPs before the end of the season, the drivers were tied. The championship battle turned in Häkkinen's favour when he won a duel against Schumacher at the Luxembourg GP, and in the season-ending Japanese GP Schumacher's car went out on the grid. Schumacher, who was dropped to the last grid position, suffered a puncture and Häkkinen won the race and his first world championship. Häkkinen won eight GPs during the season and started from pole position nine times. In Finland, he was named Sportsman of the Year.

Until the middle of the 1999 season, Häkkinen and Schumacher were again in a title race. However, at the British GP, things changed when Schumacher was injured in a retirement accident and Ferrari's co-driver Eddie Irvine began his title fight with Häkkinen. Although Häkkinen dominated qualifying with a commanding start from pole position in 11 of the 17 races of the season, the championship became a tight battle after Häkkinen was aborted by his own driving error in both races in Italy, at Imola and Monza, and by mistakes made by the team - including at the British GP - when Häkkinen's race was interrupted by a puncture. However, after the penultimate race of the season, the Malaysian GP, Häkkinen had already been declared world champion when the Ferrari team's double win was disallowed due to an illegal air dam and third-placed Häkkinen was crowned winner. However, the results were reinstated, leaving Irvine leading the championship before the final race, and Häkkinen required a victory in the season-ending Japanese GP to take the title. Häkkinen did just that and won his second career championship.

After the championships
The 2000 season got off to a mixed start for Häkkinen after he retired from the first two races of the season while Schumacher dominated the early part of the season. After Schumacher abandoned three races midway through the season, Häkkinen caught up with him by winning a race and finishing second twice, and moved into the World Championship points lead with a brilliant victory in the next two races. With three races to go, Häkkinen led Schumacher by two points, but an engine failure at the US GP was a setback to his World Championship hopes, and after Schumacher also won the Japanese GP, he won the World Championship. Häkkinen finished second in the World Championship points. In 2001, McLaren team principal Ron Dennis said car reliability problems had cost Häkkinen the championship.

Häkkinen's final season of competition in 2001 was a difficult one. McLaren's problems seemed to pile up on Häkkinen, as evidenced by a dramatic retirement from a commanding lead to a clutch failure on the last lap of the Spanish GP. Ferrari's technical advantage, particularly in the automatic starting system, gave it a considerable advantage over its rivals, and the press began speculating about Häkkinen's retirement. Häkkinen won two races during the season: the British GP and the penultimate US GP of the season. Towards the end of the season, Häkkinen announced that he was taking a one-year sabbatical from F1 and was replaced by another Finn, Kimi Räikkönen. However, Häkkinen never returned from his sabbatical, despite strong rumours that he would return for the 2005 season.


