Heikki Johannes Kovalainen (born 19 October 1981 in Suomussalmi)

Renault
In 2006 Kovalainen was a test driver for Renault's Formula 1 team and drove 28,000 test kilometres, the most test kilometres of any F1 driver. His hard work was rewarded with a racing driver's seat for the following year.
In 2007, Kovalainen was promoted to Renault's racing driver, with Giancarlo Fisichella as his team-mate. The announcement was made on 6 September 2006.
Kovalainen's place at Renault opened up when reigning world champion Fernando Alonso joined McLaren for the 2007 season. Kovalainen's manager Flavio Briatore was Renault's team principal. Renault had won both the drivers' and manufacturers' world titles the previous season, so expectations were high from both inside and outside the team.
In qualifying for his debut race in Australia, Kovalainen finished 13th, with team-mate Fisichella on the sixth grid position. Kovalainen came close to scoring points in the race, but a spin and a wide corner left him in tenth place. Team boss Briatore scolded his newcomer, as in the same race, points leader Lewis Hamilton finished third for McLaren and Briatore, used to winning, had the same expectations.
The points race opened up in the very next race, the Malaysian GP. With all the races at the start of the season finishing below expectations, Briatore was forced to admit that the fault was not with the drivers but with the car?
In the sixth eventful race of the season, in Canada, Kovalainen managed to finish fourth from the last grid position (22nd), aided by numerous safety car episodes. In the US GP, Kovalainen started the race from his career-best grid position of sixth. The race also went well: he led the first pit stops of the F1 race for the first time in his career and finished fifth. During the US races, there was a rumour that Kovalainen would move to Williams in the middle of the season. However, all parties denied the transfer rumours. In the following races, Kovalainen was steadily gaining points. He went on a seven-race points streak.
At the end of the season, in the rainy Japanese GP, Kovalainen finished on the podium for the first time in his F1 career after finishing second. In the same race, Kimi Räikkönen was third in his Ferrari and the two Finnish drivers battled for second place as Kimi Räikkönen tried to overtake Kovalainen but failed. Kovalainen's second place was also Renault's only podium finish of the season. Despite a difficult start to the season, Kovalainen's excellent late-season performance saw him beat his experienced team-mate Fisichella in the World Championship.
In the season-ending Brazilian GP, Ralf Schumacher hit Kovalainen at the start and Kovalainen was forced to pit for a slow lap afterwards due to a puncture. On lap 37, the rear suspension of the car broke, presumably due to the crash, and Kovalainen derailed off the track. This was the first retirement of his F1 career and he finished seventh in the final standings of the World Championship. In doing so, Kovalainen equalled the record for newcomers, along with Tiago Monteiro, after finishing the first 17 races.
Kovalainen eventually finished seventh in the World Championship. Somewhat surprisingly, Renault was not willing to extend Kovalainen's contract? and for the 2008 season Kovalainen moved to drive the McLaren team's second race car with Lewis Hamilton. The transfer was confirmed on 14 December 2007.

McLaren
For the 2008 season, Kovalainen moved to McLaren, the second top team of the previous season. With his contract secured, he became the fourth Finn behind the wheel of McLaren, following Keke Rosberg, Mika Häkki and Kimi Räikkönen. Kovalainen started testing for McLaren in January at the Jerez circuit.
In the first race in Australia, Kovalainen led the race for a few laps and could even have won if a safety car hadn't entered the track at the wrong time for him. Kovalainen eventually finished fifth. In Malaysia, Kovalainen finished third. He started from eighth place, where he had been after being penalised for slowing down on track during qualifying. The race saw the best ever Finnish result, with Kimi Räikkönen winning the same race. In Bahrain, Kovalainen finished fifth.
The adversity began in earnest at the Spanish GP at the Barcelona circuit, where Kovalainen's car suffered a puncture at an estimated 220-240 km/h and slammed into the tyre wall. After the accident, Kovalainen spent 24 hours in hospital under observation, but survived without serious injuries. In the next three races Kovalainen suffered bad luck, scoring just one point and dropping out of the World Championship lead by more than 20 points. In qualifying in Turkey, he finished second on the front row. However, the race went wrong early on when Kimi Räikkönen, who was driving behind, hit Kovalainen's rear tyre, causing him to puncture. Kovalainen's final position was 12th. In Monaco, Kovalainen would have started from the fourth grid position until he suffered a technical problem on the warm-up lap. Kovalainen was forced to start from the pit lane and last in the field. Kovalainen finished eighth for the final points position. In Canada, the result was ninth place. In the French GP, Kovalainen was fourth. He finished sixth in qualifying, but had to start from tenth on the grid after being penalised by the jury for blocking Mark Webber.
In qualifying for the British GP, Kovalainen took his first career pole position, more than half a second ahead of Mark Webber. In a rainy race, Kovalainen led for a long time but eventually finished fifth.
In the Hungarian GP, Kovalainen took victory after Felipe Massa's Ferrari broke down two laps from the finish. He became the 100th driver of all time to win the race. GP winner for the 100th time. The race followed the best Finnish result in Malaysia that year, when Kimi Räikkönen finished third and Nico Rosberg again in 14th.
In the European GP, Kovalainen was fourth. In Belgium, Kovalainen was third in qualifying and retired from seventh place a lap before the finish due to a technical problem. In Italy, he finished second in a rainy qualifying session and fought for victory against Sebastian Vettel. However, Vettel eventually took the win.
As the season progressed, Kovalainen was increasingly overshadowed by team-mate Hamilton in the McLaren team. The Finn almost always had to qualify with a heavier fuel load than his team-mate. The only exception was the British race, where Kovalainen took pole position. On the other hand, Kovalainen himself admitted that his race pace was not good enough.
In the evening race in Singapore, Kovalainen was tenth. In Japan he was well placed to win, having started the race in third place and with plenty of fuel in his car, but was again forced to retire due to a technical problem.
In the Chinese GP, Kovalainen's front tyre exploded and deflated while he was running fifth. The race ended in a retirement. In the Brazilian GP he was seventh.
Kovalainen finished only seventh in the World Championship points, despite his team's car being one of the two most competitive cars in the series. Team-mate Hamilton won the world championship. Kovalainen had good relations with his team-mate Hamilton and the Finn was given a contract extension for 2009.
Before the start of the 2009 season, winter testing showed that the McLaren did not have the pace to match the other top cars. However, the McLaren team believed the pace would improve by the Australian GP.
In Australian qualifying, Kovalainen was only 12th and in the race he retired on the opening lap. In the Malaysian GP, Kovalainen retired on the first lap after losing control of his car after a battle with Felipe Massa and team-mate Hamilton. In the Chinese rain race, Kovalainen finally opened his points account after finishing fifth and beating his team-mate. In Bahrain, however, things went less smoothly. Kovalainen started on grid 11 and finished a notch down. In Spain he retired with a technical problem.
Kovalainen qualified for Monaco for the first time in the top 10 after qualifying 7th. In the race, the points race got out of hand due to a driving mistake of his own and Kovalainen ended up in the guardrail. In the Turkish GP, Kovalainen started from grid 14 and fought a hard battle with Brawn's Rubens Barrichello. However, no points were scored as Kovalainen finished 14th. In Britain, Kovalainen started on grid 14, but the race ended in a crash with Sébastien Bourdais halfway through.
In the rainy qualifying session for the German GP, Kovalainen finished sixth in the old McLaren car. In the race, Kovalainen made a good start and finished third. Driving with a heavy fuel load, Kovalainen didn't let anyone pass him, but tactics eventually dropped him to eighth.
Kovalainen now had high expectations in Hungary, as he had the well-working new McLaren parts that teammate Hamilton had had and had for a couple of races. Kovalainen, who set a good pace in practice, finished sixth in qualifying. In the race he fought for a podium finish with Mark Webber and Nico Rosberg, but finished fifth. On the Valencia circuit of the European GP, Kovalainen drove a reasonably heavy car to the front of the grid, just 33 thousandths of a second off pole position. Kovalainen finished fourth in the race. In Belgium, he was sixth, aided by one stop. In Italy, he went for the race win, but bad tyre tactics dropped Kovalainen a long way. On the final lap of the race, his team-mate Hamilton crashed, and Kovalainen ended up sixth. In Singapore, he was seventh. In Japan, Kovalainen drove a colourful race, but minor collisions dropped him out of the points. In Brazil, there was a bizarre situation when a pit man let Kovalainen out of the pits too early and the fuel hose got stuck in Kovalainen's car, starting a small fire in front of Räikkönen, who was behind. However, the situation was resolved with a scare and Kovalainen did not score any points. In the season-ending race in Abu Dhabi, Kovalainen finished 11th.
During the season, the Finn showed off his skills in qualifying, despite usually having a heavier car than his team-mate, but in the races he was badly outclassed by Hamilton. Kovalainen complained time and time again that he could not get the tyres and the car to work as he wanted. His best result was fourth place in the European GP in Valencia.
Kovalainen has subsequently said that he lost confidence towards the end of the 2009 season. Hamilton won two races during the season and scored 49 points, while Kovalainen had to settle for 22 points. Team principal Whitmarsh informed Kovalainen early on that they were considering hiring Räikkönen or Jenson Button, and Kovalainen would only be McLaren's third choice for the 2010 season. On Thanksgiving Day, Kovalainen was told that McLaren would replace him with Button.[2]
During his McLaren career, Kovalainen scored 75 World Championship points and one GP victory.
Lotus and Caterham
After a long period of uncertainty, in early December 2009 it was announced that Kovalainen had signed a contract with Lotus Racing for the 2010 season. Kovalainen's team-mate was Jarno Trulli. The stable's ambitions for the season were not high, as Lotus was effectively a performance team using Cosworth engines. At the start of the season, Lotus was at least 4 seconds slower than the top teams. Afterwards, Kovalainen has said that he almost had a driver's contract for the season with the Toyota F1 team. However, Toyota withdrew from the whole sport for financial reasons. In the first two races of the season, Kovalainen managed to beat his team-mate Jarno Trull and finished thirteenth in Australia.
In the rainy qualifying session of the third race in Malaysia, he beat the top drivers Alonso, Massa, Button and Hamilton, who had suffered from tactical errors. In the race itself, Kovalainen suffered technical problems and pitted mid-race for nine laps, during which he was already flagged for retirement. However, Kovalainen was able to continue, but was declared a DNF in the final results.
In China, Kovalainen finished fourteenth.
In Spain, Monaco and Turkey, Kovalainen's Lotus failed to finish and he was forced to retire due to technical problems.
In the Canadian GP, Kovalainen finished in 16th place.
The European GP in Valencia saw perhaps the most violent crash of the season, when on lap 9 Mark Webber's car went into a frenzy after slamming into the back of Kovalainen's car. Webber's car flipped upside down in the air and came back to the track surface upside down. The car bounced back on its wheels and eventually came to a stop in the tyre wall. Kovalainen and Webber both survived the crash without injury.
Before the British GP, rumours emerged that Kovalainen would be moving back to Renault's F1 team. However, both teams confirmed it was only a rumour.
In the British race, Kovalainen finished seventeenth.
In the German GP, Kovalainen was forced to concentrate on letting "those overtaking on the lap" pass him. In the middle of the race Pedro de la Rosa went to overtake Kovalainen, but Kovalainen did not see this and Pedro de la Rosa drove into the front of Kovalainen, forcing Kovalainen to retire again.
The Hungarian GP resulted in 14th place.
Kovalainen started the rainy Belgian GP from grid position 13, his best grid position of the season. Kovalainen finished the race in 16th place.
In Italy, Kovalainen fought hard with Timo Glock, but was unable to overtake him and finished 18th.
In the Singapore GP, Kovalainen was up to 13th place at best, helped by stoppages and safety cars, but his car caught fire after a collision with Sébastien Buemi in the final laps. His final position was 16th.
In the Japanese GP, Kovalainen recorded his best result of the season after finishing twelfth.
At the Korean GP, Kovalainen continued his strong performance, finishing thirteenth after an eventful stage. At the Brazilian GP, Kovalainen was once again the fastest driver for the new teams. In the season-ending Abu Dhabi GP, Kovalainen was 17th. After the race, Kovalainen said that the season had been the best of his career, and the race his best of the season, although he scored no points all season and finished only 17th in the race.
In the battle within the garage, Kovalainen lost the time trial to Trull 8-11.
Before the 2011 season, Kovalainen's Team Lotus team thought the pace was good enough for the midfield and the aim was to fight for points in every race. The gap had clearly narrowed, but Kovalainen was still half a second behind the middle of the field. 
Kovalainen retired in the opening race of the season, in Australia, when the car suffered a water leak. Kovalainen was 15th in Malaysia and 16th in China, behind Sergio Pérez and Pastor Maldonado, among others. Kovalainen said he was in the best mood of his F1 career at the start of the season.
In qualifying for the Turkish GP, Kovalainen was almost a second faster than team-mate Jarno Trull in 18th, but the race itself was less successful after Kovalainen suffered a hydraulic failure. Kovalainen was eventually eleventh, losing out to Trulli.
For the Spanish GP, Lotus received the expected upgrade, which was expected to improve the pace by up to a second. The update package brought more speed, but not as much as expected. In qualifying, Kovalainen finished 15th on the grid behind both Force Indias and Williams' Rubens Barrichello, for which Kovalainen received high praise from his team principal Tony Fernandes. In the race, the team made a tactical error and Kovalainen eventually crashed into a tyre wall and retired.
In Monaco, Kovalainen was fourteenth.
Kovalainen was faster than team-mate Jarno Trulli in qualifying for the first six GP weekends of the season, but in Canada Trulli beat Kovalainen by hundredths of a second. In the race, Kovalainen was forced to retire after a drive axle broke.
Kovalainen's team eventually won the rights to use the Team Lotus name against Group Lotus, or Lotus Renault.
In the European GP, Kovalainen was faster than Trulli both in qualifying and in the race itself, finishing 19th. The race was a rarity as all the cars in the race made it to the finish. The Finn from Suomussalmi said he was delighted with his race.
Before the British GP, Lotus team principal Tony Fernandes said the pace of the Lotus was disappointing as Kovalainen had still not scored any points.
For the British GP qualifying session, Kovalainen hoped for wet conditions, and he got them. Kovalainen made a fine start to the second part of qualifying with a gap of 1.5 seconds to his team-mate Jarno Trull, who was 21st. Kovalainen's final grid position was 17th.
In a wet race, Kovalainen was 16th until the gearbox broke on the Lotus and he was forced to retire.
In Germany, the second Lotus was driven by Karun Chandhok for Jarno Trull. Kovalainen was faster than his team-mate throughout the race and finished 16th.
For the Hungarian GP, Lotus received some new parts including a new power steering system. It was wet at the start of the race and Kovalainen was fighting for positions with Adrian Sutil, Pastor Maldonado and Nick Heidfeld. As the track dried out, Kovalainen was losing 1-2 seconds in lap times to them, so it was clear that Lotus was faster in the rain or that Kovalainen's driving skills were more apparent. However, Kovalainen was forced to retire due to a water leak.
After the summer break, the team headed to Spa, Belgium. In qualifying, Kovalainen set perhaps one of the best qualifying times of his career. The qualifying session took place in rainy conditions. On Kovalainen's fastest lap, the rain intensified, but the Finn squeezed through in 16th place in a weak Lotus car, no less than two seconds faster than his team-mate Jarno Trull. In the race, Kovalainen crashed at the start and finished 15th.
In Italy, Kovalainen was 13th, his best result of the season so far.
In Singapore, Kovalainen drove a familiar qualifying time faster than Trulli and finished 19th. In the race, Kovalainen kept up a good pace, leaving Vitali Petrov behind and finishing 16th. Lotus boss Tony Fernandes praised Kovalainen's performance as the best in the team's history and said Kovalainen had made the most of his car. 
In Japan, Kovalainen was 18th in qualifying and made a good start to the race, but still finished 18th.
In Korea, Heikki Kovalainen drove strongly in qualifying and again made a good start to the race. In the race he left both Sauber drivers behind and was clearly faster than Trull. Technical boss Mike Gascoyne said the race was Lotus' best.
In India, Kovalainen continued his strong racing and finished fourteenth.
In Abu Dhabi and the season-ending Brazilian GP, Kovalainen continued his strong qualifying performances and excellent starts. He finished the season in Brazil in 16th place.
For the second time all season, his points tally was round zero.
16-2 in qualifying and 1-0 for Karun Chandhok.
James Allen, the respected F1 journalist, ranked Kovalainen as the fourth best F1 driver of the season. Allen said Kovalainen had made the most of his car, and was by far the best driver of the "new teams".
For the 2012 season, the Lotus team had to change its name to Caterham. Kovalainen continued to drive for the team, but his new team-mate was Vitali Petrov, a Russian who had previously driven for Renault.
The alaine was the best qualifying driver of the season compared to his team-mate. He beat Jarno Trull 
Caterham received KERS and some parts from Red Bull Racing before the season, which is why the team finally expected to move up to the midfield. The team would also get its own wind tunnel during the season. However, already in the winter tests it was discovered that the car was not good enough Caterham received KERS and some parts from Red Bull Racing before the season, which is why the team was finally expecting to move up to the midfield. The team would also get its own wind tunnel during the season. However, already in the winter tests it was noticed that the car was not good enough. For the 2012 season, Kovalainen adopted a red Angry Birds-themed helmet, which attracted positive attention.
In the season opener in Australia, Kovalainen continued his good qualifying performances from the previous season against his team-mate, beating Petrov and finishing 19th.
There was no success in Malaysia and China. In Bahrain, however, Kovalainen advanced to the second qualifying session. Kovalainen was a second faster than his team-mate Vitali Petrov. In the end, Kovalainen was 16th in qualifying.
In the Spanish GP, Kovalainen was 16th. In the next three qualifying sessions - Monaco, Canada and Valencia - Kovalainen finished second, beating his team-mate. Monaco was Kovalainen's best race result of the season as he was thirteenth. Former F1 driver and F1 expert Martin Brundle praised Kovalainen, saying he was driving like a superstar and deserved a second chance at a top team.
In Caterham's home race in Britain, Kovalainen finished seventeenth. At the same time, Kovalainen said he was getting tired of driving from a steep pace. 
In Germany, Kovalainen started from sixteenth on the grid, but through a series of problems he finished the race in nineteenth place.
At the Hungarian GP, Kovalainen drove the 100th race of his F1 career. It was also the fiftieth race for Kovalainen's Caterham team. In 2008, Kovalainen won the first F1 race of his career at the Hungaroring circuit in Hungary.
In Belgium, Kovalainen was 17th.
In qualifying for the Italian GP, Kovalainen beat his team-mate Petrov by half a second to finish 14th.
In Abu Dhabi, Kovalainen finished thirteenth, his best result of the season.
During the season, Kovalainen set a new dubious record of 60 consecutive points-free races, breaking Piercarlo Ghinzan's record.
For the 2013 season, Kovalainen did not receive a contract extension from Caterham. At the end of February, Kovalainen was in talks with Marussia for a driver's seat,[10] denying that he had signed a four-race contract with the team. In the end, Kovalainen did not get a seat from Marussia. Kovalainen got back behind the wheel of Caterham, working as a reserve driver for the team and contributing to the development of the car. He drove in free practice in Bahrain, Spain, Belgium, Italy, Japan and Abu Dhabi.
Kovalainen took part in the last two races of the 2013 season with Lotus F1 (a different team to his previous Lotus team Lotus Racing / Team Lotus from 2010 and 2011), supporting Kimi Räikkönen, who had back surgery.
In both the US and Brazilian GPs, Kovalainen finished 14th in his Lotus.
For the 2014 season, Kovalainen was not renewed by Caterham, which officially meant the end of Kovalainen's F1 career. He was out of racing in any series for the whole year and therefore took a gap year. In an interview with MTV Sport, he regretted his Formula 1 career, and said he had been hanging around the Caterham team for too long. Kovalainen said he had received offers from bigger teams at the end of the 2011 season. But he turned them down because the team promised improved car performance in the future.